**DATE:** Between the 18th and the 20th of August 2025
**TAGS:**  #ChainOfThoughs #RomanEmpire #Astronomy 
- - -
I was sitting in my Multi-Variable Calculus class during my summer semester when I started reminiscing the conversation I had the previous night with a friend of mine. I had talked to her about how I'm so passionate about history, that Romeo and Juliet reminds me of Cleopatra and Mark Antony. I explained to her how their death reminds me of the Shakespearean play. Naturally I started my story from Caesar's ascension to power and took her an entire historical journey. 

You cannot talk about the death of the Egyptian Queen and the Roman General without attributing it to the **man** **himself**, Octavius (Later Augustus). When I talked to her about this, I was fascinated by her depth of interest. I didn't start right away with the love story. No, I talked to her about Caesar's assassination, Octavian's rise to power and ultimately his war against Antony. These things are boring, very boring for the average Gen Z kid. But she listened and took avid interest in each development. 

See, most people nowadays are very much into being crazy bitches. Rarely in my age do I find someone as invested and interested in these kinds of topics and even more rare is the fact that might share it with other people. But when I did talk to her about it, I could see that the person across the screen is smart enough and, more importantly, attentive enough that they will listen and reciprocate the energy I am radiating with my uncontrollable passion to yap about these things. And so when I was sitting in class, Augustus randomly popped up in my brain. Obviously stemming from my talk with Marzia as I had put a lot of emphasis on his importance to Roman history. I thought about how Augustus was so intellectually gifted. He was horrendous in campaigning no doubt, but he made up for it through his diplomacy and statecraft. The apotheosis of this statement can be found within the story of the *Sidus Iulium*.

Days after the death of Caesar, Octavian staged funeral games in honor of Julius Caesar, titled the *Ludi Victoriae Caesaris*. Now this is the interesting part: a brilliant comet appeared in the sky for seven consecutive days, visible even during daylight. Suetonius, an ancient author recounts this event and says that it was believed to be "the soul of Caesar". Augustus deftly leveraged this phenomenon (for its time) as a piece of political theater. He used this to curate and advance the narrative of Caesar's Divinity, in turn elevating his own status as the *divi filius*, or the son of a god. He went as far as made a temple in the Roman Forum, specifically for this star. This simple "seizing of the moment" boosted Augustus's image and legitimacy as Caesar's rightful descendant and did wonders for his political career.

This specific event got me thinking of how I have seen repeatedly throughout history that many consider a higher intellect to be a completely different domain of people. This is my own interpretation based on a couple of examples, but I will note down two of them:

1) **Socrates** observed the dangers of unexamined opinion steering public affairs. Through Plato’s dialogues, he compared the state to a ship, and asked: would you let anyone steer it, or only those trained in navigation? For him, democracy was perilous if it gave the helm to those untrained in virtue and wisdom. Thus, he implied, voting should be entrusted to those capable of understanding justice and the common good. Those who are aware of the demands of statecraft. Though this example does not touch on intellectualism directly, its still an example of how one must transcend the mundane world and work towards making themselves a high virtue and distinct individual, who is aware and smart.
2) **Ibn Rushd's** example touches of philosophy and faith. In his _Decisive Treatise_, he argued that philosophy, with its demands for logical rigor and abstract reasoning, was not suited for all minds. For the untrained mind, it could mislead rather than enlighten; for the prepared, it could be a path to truth. A clear distinction was made in this regard. This is a more direct example of how one needs to have a "trained mind" to truly exist within the category of these people. 

This..... way of thinking, so to speak, motivates me daily to challenge myself and the world, and one day be in the same intellectual bracket as these people, so that my ideas can shape the world. The rigorous life of a Computer Science major hinders progress for me.... as of yet. 